---
title: Consciousness
layout: default
nav_order: 2
permalink: /consciousness
has_children: true
has_toc: false
last_modified_date: 2023-10-12
---

# Consciousness

I've been reading and writing about human consciousness since 2014. I believe that there is a neurocomputational basis for conscious experience. I seek to understand that underlying mechanism in order to explain subjective experience, to provide a framework for understanding the many aspects of consciousness, and to take advantage of that learning in aid of developing flexible and adaptive artificial intelligence.

My research strategy is as follows:
* Start from an opinionated assumption that a connectionist computational explanation exists for consciousness in general, and for subjective experience in particular.
* Apply a _design stance_ - how might we build something that emulates the external and internal behaviours that we observe.
* Take learnings from philosophy, neuroscience, evolution, behavioural studies, and AI.
* Drive explanations by focussing on _why_ a certain capability would have evolved in the first place.
* Recognise that any solution will only be complete when taking a systems approach: that every _part_ of the brain interacts with and influences every other _part_. This occurs during the construction of a given behaviour or thought, over the course of development of the individual, and at the scale of evolution.

## Latest report

{: .news }
> [Consciousness is a Semiotic Meta-management Feedback Loop]({% link consciousness/Consciousness-is-a-Semiotic-Meta-management-Feedback-Loop.md %})

Key takeaways:
* Complex brains in complex environments require iterative processing.
* Iterative processing requires the evolution of meta-management.
* Meta-management is architected as an emergent process enabled by a simple feedback loop.
* Subjective experience is a (non-epiphenomenal) side effect of meta-management.

## Topics
Major topics:
* [A Theory of Consciousness]({% link wiki/A-Theory-of-Consciousness.md %})
* [Proto AGI v1]({% link wiki/Proto-AGI-v1.md %})
* [Focusing on the Why]({% link wiki/Focusing-on-the-why.md %})
* [Consciousness is a Semiotic Meta-management Feedback Loop]({% link consciousness/Consciousness-is-a-Semiotic-Meta-management-Feedback-Loop.md %})

Other topics:
* [Background to A Theory of Mind]({% link wiki/Background-to-A-Theory-of-Mind.md %})
* [The analogy of the Thalamic symbiote]({%link wiki/The-analogy-of-the-Thalamic-symbiote.md %})
* [Visceral Loop]({% link wiki/Visceral-Loop.md %})
* [The Error Prone Brain]({% link wiki/The-Error-Prone-Brain.md %})

## Emulations
* [Conscious Calculator v1]({% link wiki/Conscious-Calculator-v1.md %})
* [Conscious Calculator v2]({% link wiki/Conscious-Calculator-v2.md %})

## Archived ideas
As ideas progress, old ideas are replaced. Some of my older theories are accessible from the [Theory Archive]({% link wiki/Theory-Archive.md %}).

