---
title: Publications
layout: default
nav_order: 2
permalink: /publications
has_children: false
has_toc: false
last_modified_date: 2024-04-18
---

{% comment %}
Not regarding local file references:
Because this index file renders with url "/publications", I need to re-include that in the file url. However, this doesn't hold when running locally for some reason.
{% endcomment %}

# Publications

I'm actively working to publish papers.

Latest online manuscript:
* [Consciousness is a Semiotic Meta-management Feedback Loop]({% link consciousness/Consciousness-is-a-Semiotic-Meta-management-Feedback-Loop.md %}) (Sep 2023)

Unpublished papers:
* [Meta-management as a clearer explanation of conscious function](publications/files/Lett-2023-Meta-management-as-a-clearer-explanation-of-consciousness-draft-1.pdf) (Nov 2023)
* [A Characterisation of processing loops in AI and biological systems and its implications for understanding Consciousness]({% link wiki/Paper-on-Loops-in-AI-and-Consciousness.md %}) (Sep 2021)
* [A Characterisation of processing loops in AI and biological systems and its implications for understanding Consciousness - Extended Version]({% link wiki/Paper-on-Loops-in-AI-and-Consciousness;-Extended-Version.md %}) (Dec 2021)

Selected publications from my MSc in CompSci:
* 3D Surface Recognition For Robotic Localisation. MSc dissertation (2006). The University of Waikato, New Zealand.

Selected publications from my Honours in CompSci:

* Malcolm Lett, Mengjie Zhang (2004). New Fitness Functions in Genetic Programming for Object Detection. BSc dissertation, Victoria University of Wellington, New Zealand \[[Full Text](https://www.researchgate.net/publication/237610372_New_Fitness_Functions_in_Genetic_Programming_for_Object_Detection)\]

* Malcolm Lett (2004). Improving Training Performance of Genetic Programming for Object Detection. Conference proceedings, Victoria University of Wellington, New Zealand
